Airframe Setup
==============

Not everyone who is interested in OpenPilot has an airframe ready to receive an
OpenPilot system. This section contains tips on how to set up your airframe so
that its suitable for use with OpenPilot.

If you have already built a UAV that flies with OpenPilot, this is also the place
to describe how you implemented OpenPilot in the airframe and how you configured it.
To see some of these airframes flying, visit the `OpenPilot Vimeo Channel <http://vimeo.com/groups/openpilot>`_
and our `OpenPilot YouTube channel <http://www.youtube.com/user/OpenPilotGlobal/featured>`_.

Multirotors
-----------

Frame Layout
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Multirotor aircraft are easier to fly and tune when they're designed with the
motors symmetrically distributed in a circle, with the flight controller located
at the point of center of gravity (COG).  It is possible to fly with motors located
off of that perfect circle (such as a spider config), but tuning can prove to be a
big challenge. The most popular quad frames tend to be those with the motors laid
out in a perfect square. Locating the flight controller away from the COG can be
done, but again, tuning can prove difficult.

.. todo:: Lost image of symmetrical hex airframe

Motor and ESC selection
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You should research your motors, ESCs and other hardware by looking at what other
pilots are using and having success with - particularly on a frame (or similar
design, size and weight) to what you are considering or have already acquired.
When first starting out, re-inventing the wheel and going with odd combinations
isn't particularly wise, and can end in frustration and needless waste of your
hobby budget. Go with the tried and true, and after you've had some flying success,
*then* start your experimenting.

Soldering wires and connectors
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you already have a soldering iron, try to determine if it's up to the task
for soldering the required connections for your RC project. Get the best soldering
iron or station you can afford, but at a *minimum*, consider 40W units or higher.
Anything less won't give you sufficient heat for the wire sizes you'll be encountering
with RC aircraft.

Rosin core solder is what you want, and avoid using plumber's solder. Opt for a
solder with a silver content if you can, and unless you're mass producing
commercial consumer goods, lead-free solder won't be your friend. It takes more
heat to melt than leaded solder, so stay away from it if you can.

Plan on having flux available. Adding a small dab of flux can mean the difference
between a good, clean molecular-level connection or a "cold solder joint" that
eventually will fail. "No-clean" flux doesn't mean it won't make a mess, but
it won't eventually corrode things if it's not cleaned off like regular rosin
flux will.

When soldering connectors to wires (i.e. 3.5mm bullet connectors), ensure you
pre-tin the wire ends. When that's all done and you're ready to attach the
connector to the wire, a good technique is to rig your soldering iron to point
straight up on the edge of your bench. Use the largest tip that will fit inside
the female connector. Place the connector on the tip, and wait 8-10 seconds.
Add solder to the "cup" of the connector to fill about 2/3 full. Having a pair
of pliers at the ready, add a very small dab of flux to the wire tip, then dip
the wire into the cup. If you're holding the wire about 2 inches away from the
connector, you should wait until it get's pretty hot (close to being too hot to
hold, and the solder in the cup liquid and the wire is loose) before picking the
connector off the soldering iron tip and lifting both the wire and connector up
at the same time. Hold everything straight for 10 seconds or so, and the solder
will cool enough to let go of the connector. This same technique can be used
for most male connectors by placing a spare female connector on the iron tip,
and placing the male into the solder cup of the female. Allow to heat for 15-20
seconds to be hot enough to melt your solder. Also, be sure a fan or air
conditioner isn't blowing air on the connector, or heat will be lost. Remember,
holding the wire with bare fingers will hurt a little if the heat is sufficient,
but it will be a good indicator if its heated enough. (But use pliers to remove
the connector from the soldering iron tip!). There are many instructional videos
online that may be of assistance for technical tasks such as soldering.

To braid and twist, or not?
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Braiding, plaiting, or twisting motor wires, ESC power wires, servo leads, and
receiver wires is generally a good idea, for a couple of reasons. Twisting or
braiding will cancel out magnetic fields generated by currents in opposing
polarity wires and spurious signals from signal wires. That's a good thing,
even if you aren't planning to fly with a camera feed (FPV). It also creates a
stronger wire.  Think of how rope is made, and why it's twisted and/or braided.
It makes for a stronger filament. If something snags one of your motor wires,
wouldn't you want it to be three times stronger than a single wire?

Battery selection and placement on the airframe
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

With more capacity, comes more weight. It's a constant stuggle to get the most
flight time we can out of our aircraft. It stands to reason that a bigger battery
will give us more flight time, right?  Not so right. The bigger the battery,
the heavier it will be, and there comes a point that it provides a diminishing
return and trade-offs come into play. Here again, research what other people are
using on the type of frame you want, or something similar, and discover what
batteries they're using. Doubtless, a lot of experimentation has already occurred,
so find out what actually works. A heavy copter relative to it's power system
is a sluggish, hard to fly copter.


.. rubric:: Below is the list of currently documented airframes:

.. todo:: airframes :(
